content/post/workshop1/index.md, before:

---
title: Seed Traits Workshop

event: Seed Traits Workshop
event_url:

location: TBD
address:
  street:
  city:
  region: ACT
  postcode:
  country: Australia

summary: First AusTraits workshop to refine trait definitions
abstract: Collaborate with other researchers to refine trait definitions

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
date: "2021-10-28T13:00:00Z"
date_end: "2021-10-29T15:00:00Z"
all_day: false

# Schedule page publish date (NOT talk date).
publishDate: "2021-08-01T00:00:00Z"

authors: []
tags: []

# Is this a featured talk? (true/false)
featured: false

image:
  caption:
  focal_point: Right

links:
url_code: ""
url_pdf: ""
url_slides: ""
url_video: ""

# Markdown Slides (optional).
#   Associate this talk with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.

---
This will be our first in a series of workshops to refine and document the trait definitions used to build AusTraits. Our first workshop will be focused on a collection of traits related to seeds, germination and seedlings. 
<br>  

##### Workshop organisers
- **Elizabeth Wenk**, UNSW
- **Herve Sauquet**, UNSW
- **Lydia Guja**, Centre for Australian National Biodiversity Research

##### Workshop participants
- **Russell Barrett**, Royal Botanic Gardens and Domain Trust Sydney
- **Carl Gosper**, Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions, Western Australia
- **Greg Jordan**, University of Tasmania
- **Mark Ooi**, UNSW
- **Karen Sommerville**, Royal Botanic Gardens and Domain Trust Sydney

Commit message:

Update website (#14)
website updates including:
- replacing ARDC logo with correct version
- vocabulary workshop updates
- update relational table figures to reflect new column names and structures
- update figure showing the connection between our various work packages
- update information on our current projects to include APT, data scraping

content/post/workshop1/index.md, after:

---
title: Vocabulary Workshops

event: Vocabulary Workshops
event_url:

location: TBD
address:
  street:
  city:
  region: ACT
  postcode:
  country: Australia

summary: AusTraits workshops to refine trait definitions
abstract: Collaborate with other researchers to refine trait definitions

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
#date: "2021-10-28T13:00:00Z"
#date_end: "2021-10-29T15:00:00Z"
#all_day: false

# Schedule page publish date (NOT talk date).
publishDate: "2021-08-01T00:00:00Z"

authors: []
tags: []

# Is this a featured talk? (true/false)
featured: false

image:
  caption:
  focal_point: Right

links:
url_code: ""
url_pdf: ""
url_slides: ""
url_video: ""

# Markdown Slides (optional).
#   Associate this talk with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this post with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["internal-project"]` references `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.

---
Over the past year we have conducted two workshops to refine and document the trait definitions used to build AusTraits. These workshops have brought together researchers from different disciplines, ranging from plant ecologists to systematists, who use AusTraits to answer correspondingly different research questions The forum allows us to jointly determine the scope of traits, trait definitions and allowable trait values that meet everyone's research needs.

The first workshop was focused on a collection of traits related to seeds, germination and seedlings. 
<br>  

##### Workshop organisers
- **Elizabeth Wenk**, UNSW
- **Herve Sauquet**, UNSW
- **Lydia Guja**, Centre for Australian National Biodiversity Research

##### Workshop participants
- **Russell Barrett**, Royal Botanic Gardens and Domain Trust Sydney
- **Carl Gosper**, Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions, Western Australia
- **Greg Jordan**, University of Tasmania
- **Mark Ooi**, UNSW
- **Karen Sommerville**, Royal Botanic Gardens and Domain Trust Sydney

The second workshop was focused on a collection of traits related to plant growth form and morphological leaf traits. 
<br>  

##### Workshop organisers
- **Elizabeth Wenk**, UNSW
- **Herve Sauquet**, UNSW

##### Workshop participants
- **Russell Barrett**, Royal Botanic Gardens and Domain Trust Sydney
- **Greg Jordan**, University of Tasmania
- **Andy Leigh**, University of Technology, Sydney
- **Pat Lu-Irving**, Royal Botanic Gardens and Domain Trust Sydney 
- **Peter Vesk**, University of Melbourne
- **Ian Wright**, Hawkesbury Institute for the Environment, University of Western Sydney

In early 2023 we will be holding a workshop on traits that shape plant fire response and conducting some informal reviews of traits capturing physiological function.
